README.rst, before:

Site builder
============

This builds a static site for given Paneron RegistryKit based dataset.

Not production ready; currently under development.

Intended to be run as::

    npx @paneron/site-builder --outdir dist [--datadir path/to/register] [watch --serve]

More complete option overview::

    npx @paneron/site-builder \
      --outdir dist \
      [--debug | --verbose] \
      [--datadir path/to/register] \
      [--dataversion (git rev-parse --short HEAD)] \
      [--devextpath /path/to/local/extension] \
      [--forusername <username>] \
      [watch [--serve] [--watch-template] [--port 12345]]

It would:

* place site assets under ``outdir``,
* generate data indices as required by site runtime
  and place them under ``outdir`` where expected.

Uses Node 20.11.2.


Development
-----------

Note that build is handled by esbuild, while TSC is still used
for typechecking. Type errors shouldn’t be ignored, but a type error
may still result in a valid build (depends on specifics).

Important scripts:

- Root package’s ``build-self`` script compiles site builder
- site/spa’s ``clean-build`` script compiles front-end code

Release
~~~~~~~

- Remember to run the important scripts before testing & publishing

- Run ``npm publish`` from the root
  (no need to change into a separate “dist” dir)

Commit message:

docs(README): Note recent script breakage & workaround

README.rst, after:

Site builder
============

This builds a static site for given Paneron RegistryKit based dataset.

Not production ready; currently under development.

Intended to be run as::

    npx @paneron/site-builder --outdir dist [--datadir path/to/register] [watch --serve]

More complete option overview::

    npx @paneron/site-builder \
      --outdir dist \
      [--debug | --verbose] \
      [--datadir path/to/register] \
      [--dataversion (git rev-parse --short HEAD)] \
      [--devextpath /path/to/local/extension] \
      [--forusername <username>] \
      [watch [--serve] [--watch-template] [--port 12345]]

It would:

* place site assets under ``outdir``,
* generate data indices as required by site runtime
  and place them under ``outdir`` where expected.

Uses Node 20.11.2.


Development
-----------

Note that build is handled by esbuild, while TSC is still used
for typechecking. Type errors shouldn’t be ignored, but a type error
may still result in a valid build (depends on specifics).

Important scripts:

- Root package’s ``build-self`` script compiles site builder
- site/spa’s ``clean-build`` script compiles front-end code

.. important::

   This package uses Yarn PnP. However, recently running ``yarn``
   seems to remove ``fallbackPool`` entries from ``.pnp.cjs``,
   which would trip the ``build-self`` script
   of the ``site/spa`` subpackage (which runs esbuild),
   because ExtensionKit and RegistryKit import packages
   that they list only in ``devDependencies``.

   The temporary workaround is to NOT commit the entire
   updated ``.pnp.cjs``: discard changes in ``fallbackPool``
   and only commit the changes that don’t affect ``fallbackPool``.

Release
~~~~~~~

- Remember to run the important scripts before testing & publishing

- Run ``npm publish`` from the root
  (no need to change into a separate “dist” dir)
