README.adoc, before:

:default-port: 8080

[subs="attributes"]

== Site builder

This is a CLI tool to build a static site for given Paneron
https://github.com/paneron/registry-kit/[RegistryKit^]-based dataset.

STATUS: Not production ready; currently under development.

Tested using Node 20.11.1.


=== Quick Usage

==== Building the site artifacts with local data

Is is intended to be run as:

[source]
----
npx @paneron/site-builder [options...] --outdir OUTDIR
----

It would:

* read Paneron dataset from current directory (can be specified with `--datadir DATADIR`),
* place site assets under `OUTDIR`,
* generate data indices as required by site runtime and place them under
`OUTDIR` where expected.


==== Serving the site with local data

[source]
----
npx @paneron/site-builder [options...] --outdir OUTDIR \
  watch [--serve [--port PORT]] [--watch-template]
----

It would:

* build site assets as in the above,
* start an HTTP server under the specified `PORT`, serving `OUTDIR`.

When done, press `Ctrl-C` twice to stop serving.


=== Synopsis

[source]
----
npx @paneron/site-builder --outdir OUTDIR \
  [--debug | --verbose] \
  [--datadir DATADIR] \
  [--dataversion GITREF] \
  [--devextpath DEVEXTPATH] \
  [--forusername USERNAME] \
  [watch [--serve [--port PORT]] [--watch-template]]
----


==== Commands

`watch`:: Watch for changes in the dataset and rebuild the site.


==== Options

`--outdir OUTDIR`:: (*Required*) Specify path to directory for outputs.
Will be created by this tool if not exists.
`--debug`:: Enable debug logging.
`--verbose`:: Enable verbose logging.
`--datadir DATADIR`:: Specify path to Paneron dataset directory.
Must contain `panerondataset.yaml`.
Default: current directory.
`--dataversion GITREF`:: Specify Git ref of Paneron dataset under `DATADIR`.
Default: whichever ref is currently checked out,
_i.e._ `git rev-parse --short HEAD`.
`--devextpath DEVEXTPATH`:: Specify path to local development extension.
`--forusername USERNAME`:: Specify username, for access to the register.
`--serve`:: Serve the built site.
`--watch-template`:: Used under `watch`.
Specify whether to also watch for changes in the site template directory
apart from the dataset directory.
`--port PORT`:: Used with `--serve`.
Specify port to serve the site on.
Default: `{default-port}`.


=== Development

Note that build is handled by https://esbuild.github.io/[esbuild^],
while https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/compiler-options.html[TSC^]
is still used for typechecking.
Type errors shouldn’t be ignored,
but a type error may still result in a valid build
(depends on specifics).

[[important-scripts]]
==== Important scripts

* Root package’s `build-self` script compiles site builder
* link:./site/spa[`site/spa`]’s `clean-build` script compiles front-end code
** This is also run by the root package’s `build-template` script.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
This repository uses https://yarnpkg.com/features/pnp[Yarn PnP^],
but in `loose` mode for the sake of `spa` package build script.
Since https://esbuild.github.io/[ExtensionKit^] and
https://github.com/paneron/registry-kit/[RegistryKit^] import
packages that they list only in `devDependencies`,
in strict mode esbuild would fail with an
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/76015181/the-yarn-plugnplay-manifest-forbids-importing-xyz-here-because-its-not-list[error^]
for every such import when bundling SPA for client-side.
====

==== Testing with local data

===== Common steps

. Working from the repository root, build the site builder,
making sure `build-site.mjs` is being output and is executable:
+
[source,console]
----
> yarn run build-self ; yarn run build-template
> ls -l build-site.mjs
-rwxr-xr-x@ 1 username  groupname  1943914  1 Jan 13:37 build-site.mjs
----


[[building-the-site-artifacts]]
===== Building the site artifacts with local data

[start=2]
. Run `./build-site.mjs` with the required parameters:
+
[source,console]
----
> ./build-site.mjs --datadir DATADIR --outdir OUTDIR
Fetch extension code from .../extension.js to OUTDIR/extension.js: 863.576ms
Fetch package.json from .../package.json to OUTDIR/package.json: 407.994ms
Fetch extension JS OUTDIR: 1.283s
Scaffold site template from .../site/spa/dist into OUTDIR: 3.027s
Fetch extension code from .../extension.js to OUTDIR/extension.js: 178.606ms
Fetch package.json from .../package.json to OUTDIR/package.json: 87.67ms
Importing site builder from .../site/spa/build-site.mjs: 84.967ms
Running site builder: 754.246ms
>
----


===== Serving the site with local data

[start=2]
. Run `./build-site.mjs` with the required parameters, with the `watch --serve` option.
When done, press `Ctrl-C` twice to stop serving:
+
[source,console,subs="attributes"]
----
> ./build-site.mjs --datadir DATADIR --outdir OUTDIR watch --serve --port {default-port}
Fetch extension code from .../extension.js to OUTDIR/extension.js: 863.576ms
Fetch package.json from .../package.json to OUTDIR/package.json: 407.994ms
Fetch extension JS OUTDIR: 1.283s
Scaffold site template from .../site/spa/dist into OUTDIR: 3.027s
Fetch extension code from .../extension.js to OUTDIR/extension.js: 178.606ms
Fetch package.json from .../package.json to OUTDIR/package.json: 87.67ms
Importing site builder from .../site/spa/build-site.mjs: 84.967ms
Running site builder: 754.246ms
^C^C
>
----

Alternatively, after link:#building-the-site-artifacts[building the site], run:

[source,console]
----
> npx serve OUTDIR [--listen PORT]
----


==== Release

* Remember to verify that everything runs without errors in the
link:#important-scripts["Important scripts"] section before testing & publishing.
* Run `npm publish` from the root (no need to change into a separate
“dist” dir).


==== License

See link:./LICENSE[`LICENSE`^] for license information.

Commit message:

docs(README): Add section on typical dev workflow

README.adoc, after:

:default-port: 8080

[subs="attributes"]

== Site builder

This is a CLI tool to build a static site for given Paneron
https://github.com/paneron/registry-kit/[RegistryKit^]-based dataset.

STATUS: Not production ready; currently under development.

Tested using Node 20.11.1.


=== Quick Usage

==== Building the site artifacts with local data

Is is intended to be run as:

[source]
----
npx @paneron/site-builder [options...] --outdir OUTDIR
----

It would:

* read Paneron dataset from current directory (can be specified with `--datadir DATADIR`),
* place site assets under `OUTDIR`,
* generate data indices as required by site runtime and place them under
`OUTDIR` where expected.


==== Serving the site with local data

[source]
----
npx @paneron/site-builder [options...] --outdir OUTDIR \
  watch [--serve [--port PORT]] [--watch-template]
----

It would:

* build site assets as in the above,
* start an HTTP server under the specified `PORT`, serving `OUTDIR`.

When done, press `Ctrl-C` twice to stop serving.


=== Synopsis

[source]
----
npx @paneron/site-builder --outdir OUTDIR \
  [--debug | --verbose] \
  [--datadir DATADIR] \
  [--dataversion GITREF] \
  [--devextpath DEVEXTPATH] \
  [--forusername USERNAME] \
  [watch [--serve [--port PORT]] [--watch-template]]
----


==== Commands

`watch`:: Watch for changes in the dataset and rebuild the site.


==== Options

`--outdir OUTDIR`:: (*Required*) Specify path to directory for outputs.
Will be created by this tool if not exists.
`--debug`:: Enable debug logging.
`--verbose`:: Enable verbose logging.
`--datadir DATADIR`:: Specify path to Paneron dataset directory.
Must contain `panerondataset.yaml`.
Default: current directory.
`--dataversion GITREF`:: Specify Git ref of Paneron dataset under `DATADIR`.
Default: whichever ref is currently checked out,
_i.e._ `git rev-parse --short HEAD`.
`--devextpath DEVEXTPATH`:: Specify path to local development extension.
`--forusername USERNAME`:: Specify username, for access to the register.
`--serve`:: Serve the built site.
`--watch-template`:: Used under `watch`.
Specify whether to also watch for changes in the site template directory
apart from the dataset directory.
`--port PORT`:: Used with `--serve`.
Specify port to serve the site on.
Default: `{default-port}`.


=== Development

Note that build is handled by https://esbuild.github.io/[esbuild^],
while https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/compiler-options.html[TSC^]
is still used for typechecking.
Type errors shouldn’t be ignored,
but a type error may still result in a valid build
(depends on specifics).

[[important-scripts]]
==== Important scripts

* Root package’s `build-self` script compiles site builder
* link:./site/spa[`site/spa`]’s `clean-build` script compiles front-end code
** This is also run by the root package’s `build-template` script.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
This repository uses https://yarnpkg.com/features/pnp[Yarn PnP^],
but in `loose` mode for the sake of `spa` package build script.
Since https://esbuild.github.io/[ExtensionKit^] and
https://github.com/paneron/registry-kit/[RegistryKit^] import
packages that they list only in `devDependencies`,
in strict mode esbuild would fail with an
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/76015181/the-yarn-plugnplay-manifest-forbids-importing-xyz-here-because-its-not-list[error^]
for every such import when bundling SPA for client-side.
====

==== Testing with local data

===== Common steps

. Working from the repository root, build the site builder,
making sure `build-site.mjs` is being output and is executable:
+
[source,console]
----
> yarn run build-self ; yarn run build-template
> ls -l build-site.mjs
-rwxr-xr-x@ 1 username  groupname  1943914  1 Jan 13:37 build-site.mjs
----


[[building-the-site-artifacts]]
===== Building the site artifacts with local data

[start=2]
. Run `./build-site.mjs` with the required parameters:
+
[source,console]
----
> ./build-site.mjs --datadir DATADIR --outdir OUTDIR
Fetch extension code from .../extension.js to OUTDIR/extension.js: 863.576ms
Fetch package.json from .../package.json to OUTDIR/package.json: 407.994ms
Fetch extension JS OUTDIR: 1.283s
Scaffold site template from .../site/spa/dist into OUTDIR: 3.027s
Fetch extension code from .../extension.js to OUTDIR/extension.js: 178.606ms
Fetch package.json from .../package.json to OUTDIR/package.json: 87.67ms
Importing site builder from .../site/spa/build-site.mjs: 84.967ms
Running site builder: 754.246ms
>
----


===== Serving the site with local data

[start=2]
. Run `./build-site.mjs` with the required parameters, with the `watch --serve` option.
When done, press `Ctrl-C` twice to stop serving:
+
[source,console,subs="attributes"]
----
> ./build-site.mjs --datadir DATADIR --outdir OUTDIR watch --serve --port {default-port}
Fetch extension code from .../extension.js to OUTDIR/extension.js: 863.576ms
Fetch package.json from .../package.json to OUTDIR/package.json: 407.994ms
Fetch extension JS OUTDIR: 1.283s
Scaffold site template from .../site/spa/dist into OUTDIR: 3.027s
Fetch extension code from .../extension.js to OUTDIR/extension.js: 178.606ms
Fetch package.json from .../package.json to OUTDIR/package.json: 87.67ms
Importing site builder from .../site/spa/build-site.mjs: 84.967ms
Running site builder: 754.246ms
^C^C
>
----

Alternatively, after link:#building-the-site-artifacts[building the site], run:

[source,console]
----
> npx serve OUTDIR [--listen PORT]
----

===== Summary -- Typical Development Workflow

. Make changes to the site builder or the site template (link:./site/spa[`site/spa`]).
. Run the following to compile the site builder and the site template:
+
[source,console]
----
> yarn run build-self && yarn run build-template && \
  ./build-site.mjs --datadir DATADIR --outdir OUTDIR \
  watch --serve
----
. Test the site in a browser (default at link:http://localhost:{default-port}[^]).

==== Release

* Remember to verify that everything runs without errors in the
link:#important-scripts["Important scripts"] section before testing & publishing.
* Run `npm publish` from the root (no need to change into a separate
“dist” dir).


==== License

See link:./LICENSE[`LICENSE`^] for license information.
